# Which distros to support

Subcategory: Environment setup

## Conversation

### maliberty
Currently OR CI is built with
* Local centos7 gcc8
* Local centos7 gcc8 without GUI
* Docker centos7 gcc8
* Docker ubuntu20.04 gcc9

PRs additionally have GH actions that test:
* macOS (x86)
* c++20 (using clang-16)

Centos7 is getting quite dated and I think it is time to replace it with a more modern distro.  #3344 shows an example problem where qt5charts is not available in this older distro.  I think Ubuntu 22 or Debian 11 are good contenders.

I'd like community input as to what distro others are using with OR to help guide our choice.  @antonblanchard @gadfort @QuantamHD @rovinski @msaligane @oharboe @donn @nayiri-k

The default compiler version would be updated to match the distro default.

FYI @vvbandeira @tspyrou 

### QuantamHD
Google is on Debian test called [Glinux](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GLinux). Ubuntu 22 or Debian 11 seem like reasonable choices to me.

But we use bazel to build everything from source so the biggest issue for me is if we start requiring very new versions of widely used libraries like Boost, because then I have to upgrade all of Google to use that version of software which can be a big pain.

Google has a one version policy for any piece of software in the universe, and it's all stored in a monorepo.

### donn
I use Nix as a build system, so as long as the CMakeFiles are generic enough to compile on both macOS, Ubuntu and CentOS I have no issues with the specific versions of the operating system.

### rovinski
CentOS 7 is EOL on 2024-06-30. I know of machines that are still running it, so maybe it would be a good idea to hold off removing support until then.

### olofk
As a data point, I wanted to mention that I just got it running on Gentoo, depending only on system packages except for or-tools

