# Synthesis support

Subcategory: Synthesis support

## Conversation

### Blebowski
Hello, Is there any idea whether eventually OpenRoad would like to support also synthesis as part of the tool (instead of using Yosys externally) ?

### maliberty
There is no plan for that.  At most we would integrate yosys.  What motivates your question?

### Blebowski
Hi, @maliberty , several points:
- Yosys does not support full System Verilog (AFAIK, only with proprietary parser). Nor it supports VHDL (only via GHDL yosys plugin, and  getting this to work is tricky)
- Synthesis is mentioned several times in: https://github.com/The-OpenROAD-Project/OpenROAD/issues/1759
1. Hard to get netlist that passes the timing
2. Possible QoR gains

- Generally, placement / routing aware synthesis reaches better results in lower geometries
- Industry high-end goes this direction
- Easier user interface (single database, simpler to pass information from synthesis to PnR)


### Blebowski
However,
I need to note that I am not actively using nor developing OpenRoad. As for the usage, in company where I work, we use Synopsys for Synthesis and PnR tools due to stability, documentation, good performance and vast features available. We are looking forward for the day when we will be able to use open source.
As for the development, I would really like to join, but I already have little time for the open-source work due to my daily job.

### maliberty
SV support is unrelated to OR and is being addressed in https://github.com/chipsalliance/Surelog.  The pain is mostly related to missing ASIC oriented features in yosys/abc (eg operator mapping).  

In general its a large effort and would need dedicated resources to work on it.  There isn't enough bandwidth to make it a priority.  If you want to start addressing some of these concerns I'd be happy to discuss further.

### maliberty
OR has already integrated abc which handles the technology dependent operations.  Its less clear that there is a big advantage to the technology independent operations in yosys itself.  There is some work slowly progressing on remapping in OR using abc.

