# rtl-mp

Tool: TritonPart

Subcategory: Error during execution

## Conversation

### bittnada
Hello,

I am trying to do floorplanning with OpenROAD with ISPD benchmark superblue16, but I am struggling with so many problems.
I am quite new to this filed, so my knowledge for this filed is not high enough.
I uploaded .lef, .def. and .v field given by ISPD and tried to do floorplan, but  this error line "LEF MASTER ~CELL HAS NO LIBERTY CELL" appeared and does not work at all. 
I am glad if anyone has any idea about this error and how to work with this kind of open bench mark.

Thanks

### maliberty
I don't see any uploaded files.  Based on the message you have a cell called "~CELL" that exists in LEF but for which you have no .lib.

### bittnada
Thanks to all of you
I followed the order of commands that @QuantamHD  recommended and it worked although LEF file seems to have some syntax errors.
Global placement (GPL) worked well, so I am very happy with this result. As @rovinski mentioned, global placement also worked without importing .lib file. Regarding with global placement, I have none of problem. I appreciate to all of you.

I am also trying to run floorplanning with openroad as I want to follow the paper (https://vlsicad.ucsd.edu/Publications/Conferences/389/c389.pdf), embedded in the floorplan machine for openroad.

Although the ISPD contest porblem is provided as "floorplan" finished, I want to re-floorplan with openroad and
compare the results between openroad and as it is given. 

I tried the commands as shown below,
```
read_verilog superblue16.v
read_lef tech.lef
read_lef superblue16.lef
read_lib superblue16_Early.lib
link_design superblue16
write_def superblue16.def
read_def superblue16.def -floorplan_initialize
partition_design -max_num_inst 1000 -min_num_inst 200 -max_num_macro 1 -min_num_macro 0 -net_threshold 0 -virtual_weight 500 -report_directory . -report_file report
```
Am I on the right track?



