# place_pins positional arguments not supported

Tool: Pin Placer

Subcategory: Tool behavior issue

## Conversation

### TanjIsGray
I see from chatter here that some folks use place_pins, but it seems not to work for me, with the error message showing in the title.  My io.tcl is:
-----

set leftPins {}
foreach port [get_ports _l_*] {
    lappend leftPins [get_property $port name]
}

set_io_pin_constraint -region left:* -pin_names $leftPins

set_io_pin_constraint -region right:* -pin_names {
    _r_h_in _r_g_in _r_f_in _r_e_rot25 _r_e_rot11 _r_e_rot06 _r_e_in
    _r_d_in _r_c_in _r_l_in _r_a_rot22 _r_a_rot13 _r_a_rot02 _r_a_in
    _r_KW0_in
}

set_io_pin_constraint -region top:* -pin_names {
    _t_aCarryIn0 _t_aCarryIn1 _t_aCpropIn
    _t_eCarryIn0 _t_eCarryIn1 _t_eCarryIn2 _t_eCpropIn
}

set_io_pin_constraint -region bottom:* -pin_names {
    _b_aCarryOut0 _b_aCarryOut1 _b_aCpropOut
    _b_eCarryOut0 _b_eCarryOut1 _b_eCarryOut2 _b_eCpropOut
}

place_pins -hor_layers metal4 -ver_layers metal5 -min_distance_in_tracks 4
---

which works fine until I added the place_pins command.

I also used M4 and M5 for layer names (ASAP7) since those are what the openroad -gui viewer shows.

Is this command blocked by something else?  Is the track-multiplier not supported?
Thanks!

### maliberty
You might try the recent -annealing options.  @eder-matheus any further comments?

### maliberty
Would you include a screen shot of what you are seeing?  Note that -min_distance means pin can be that close together at a minimum, not that they will necessarily be that close together if there is extra space available.

### eder-matheus
@TanjIsGray Do you have a reproducible you can share regarding the minimum distance not being respected? We have a bunch of unit tests with different minimum distance values, and all seem to work properly.

### TanjIsGray
I can share the source, make and tcl.  These are not large, a few hundred lines of verilog.

