# [WARNING DPL-0004/5/6] Warning Details

Tool: Detailed Placement

Subcategory: Detailed Placement issue

## Conversation

### dineshannayya
Can any one give more details on the these WARNING  & also how to solve these issue.

[WARNING DPL-0004] Placed in rows check failed (4).
[WARNING DPL-0005] Overlap check failed (1).
[WARNING DPL-0006] Site check failed (4).

I am trying to do detailed placement using openlane flow and 99% of block are hard core, only 32 cells are there at top-level
There is good amount of free space available. still tool fails with these error.



### maliberty
It is a check at the end of placement to make sure the result is non-overlapping.  It suggests a placement failure but its hard to say anything more without a test case.  Can you provide one?

### dineshannayya
The project had 99% hard macro with less than 32 other cells and there was
more than 30% free space. Still openroad detailed route was placing
overlapping cells with hard macros & giving DPL-4/5/6 warning.

Finally I noticed the issue was resolved after changing
diamond_search_hight more than *250*.

Can give more details on how increased  diamond_search_hight value helped
here ?



On Thu, Jun 17, 2021 at 7:17 PM Matt Liberty ***@***.***>
wrote:

> It is a check at the end of placement to make sure the result is
> non-overlapping. It suggests a placement failure but its hard to say
> anything more without a test case. Can you provide one?
>
> —
> You are receiving this because you authored the thread.
> Reply to this email directly, view it on GitHub
> <https://github.com/The-OpenROAD-Project/OpenROAD/discussions/754#discussioncomment-883422>,
> or unsubscribe
> <https://github.com/notifications/unsubscribe-auth/AB7HAVW45OKCTMLEFRCYBBLTTH4HJANCNFSM463RXQWA>
> .
>


### maliberty
I would guess that global placement left cells very far from any legal location.  You might look at a post global-placement def to see.

