# Options in the Python API

Tool: Global Placement

Subcategory: Usage question

## Conversation

### maliberty
The python api differs from tcl in being more OO (objects/methods) rather than command oriented.  I'd like to discuss standardizing how that API accept options.  Current APIs are variable:
- Some use state building commands.  For example pdn has define_pdn_grid, add_pdn_stripe, etc.
- Some persistently hold an options object that can be modified by the user.  For example TritonCTS::getParms()
- Some take their options as arguments.  For example Resizer::repairHold(...)

Complicating cases are:
- Tools that call other tools.  For example gpl calls grt and rsz
- Incremental operations that retain state between invocations.  For example grt and sta

My best thought on how to standardize is to have a persistent set of default options and the ability to pass an overriding set.  A sketch of the idea:
```
class ToolOptions
{
public:
  ToolOptions(); // a well-defined default state
  void setOptionA(int value);
  void setOptionB(bool value);
};

class Tool
{
public:
  static ToolOptions* getDefaultOptions();

  // if options is nullptr then the default options are used.
  void task(ToolOptions* options = nullptr);

private:
  static ToolOptions* default_options_;
};
```

One use model would be pre-configuration (in C++ but similarly in python)
```
// setup
auto default_options = Tool::getDefaultOptions();
default_options.setOptionB(false);

// later
tool->task();
```

Another use model could be
```
ToolOptions options;
options.setOptionB(false);
tool->task(options);
```

This can be extended to the case of one tool calling another internally with an API like:
```
void task(ToolOptions* options = nullptr,
          AnotherToolOptions* options = nullptr);
```

For a sufficiently complicated tool the options object could itself become a sub-configuration builder.  For example:
```
class PdnOptions
{
public:
  RingOptions* add_ring();
};
```

The case of an incremental tool is tricky.  If asked to do an update I think it should do so according to the last set of options (default or not) that it used.  This implies that it must keep a copy of any non-default options object.

I'm open to other ideas or improvements.  I'd love to hear from folks @gadfort @macd @QuantamHD @cdleary @osamahammad21 @antonblanchard @donn @rovinski 

### maliberty
@proppy 

### QuantamHD
I like the idea, but I think I would make a modification to a builder architecture, which I think makes sense for two reasons.

1. It allows you to do more validation in your builder which would give us the ability ensure that a user can never create an invalid tool configuration. For example creating a PDN that has straps repeat at a greater pitch than the width of the chip (Which I've run into)
2. I like the idea of `ToolOptions` being an Immutable object. It means that a tool cannot modify the options which I think reduces the possibility of tools doing weird things with user provided options.

```c++
class ToolOptionsBuilder : OptionBuilder {
public:
  /*
  * Not necessarily required in all cases, but could help build default options for a particular PDK, or
  * core size etc.
  */
  ToolOptionsBuilder(Design *);

  void setOptionA(int A);
  void setOptionB(bool B);
  ErrorOr<ToolOptions> create(); // could also throw an exception.
}

class ToolOptions : ToolOption{
private:
   ToolOptions(int A, bool B); // a well-defined default state

public:
   int getOptionA();
   bool getOptionB();
};
 
class Tool {
public:
   static ToolOptions* getDefaultOptions(); // calls ToolOptionsBuilder(...).create(); 
 
   // if options is nullptr then the default options are used.
   void task(ToolOptions* options = nullptr); 
};
```



> ```c++
> // setup
> auto default_options = Tool::getDefaultOptions();
> default_options.setOptionB(false);
> 
> // later
> tool->task();
> ```
I don't like the idea of modifying the default options object, seems very error prone.



> Another use model could be
> 
> ```c++
> ToolOptionsBuilder options;
> options.setOptionB(false);
> tool->task(options.create());
> ```
I like this model, but with the builder pattern.


> This can be extended to the case of one tool calling another internally with an API like:
> 
> ```c++
> void task(ToolOptions* options = nullptr,
>           AnotherToolOptions* options = nullptr);
> ```
I think this is a greate idea too.


> For a sufficiently complicated tool the options object could itself become a sub-configuration builder. For example:
> 
> ```c++
> class PdnOptions
> {
> public:
>   RingOptions* getRing();
> };
> ```
I like this but again should be constructed using builders.


> The case of an incremental tool is tricky. If asked to do an update I think it should do so according to the last set of options (default or not) that it used. This implies that it must keep a copy of any non-default options object.

I think there's also another problem
1. The common use mode of the tools is to do one step then dump an ODB file. I don't think we can get rid of this use mode, because then it would be impossible to run the tool incrementally. Which is making me feel like we need to serialize them into the database.

I've thought about it a bunch, and I think storing a hidden only history from a user is probably not the right API instead I suggest. 

```c++
class Tool {
public:
   static ToolOptions* getDefaultOptions(); // calls ToolOptionsBuilder(...).create();
   set incrementalOptions(ToolOptions* options);
 
   // if options is nullptr then the default options are used.
   void task(ToolOptions* options = nullptr);
 
private:
  ToolOptions* incremental_options_;

};
```

On construction the incrementalOptions are set to what's provided in the constructor, or can be updated by the user.

This brings up another question about incremental APIs. @maliberty how do you envision a tool getting access to a `Tool` object will the user need to pass one into the options, or something else?


### rovinski
It's a very interesting question and I feel like I've become jaded because of how inconsistent commercial tools are. It seems like tools (both commercial and OpenROAD) always consist of some combination of the three options you mentioned. What's worse is that commercial tools can be some kind of weird blend of global variables, app variables, tool variables, etc. all with different methods for accessing them... it can get overwhelming.

I think for the most part, I like the idea of doing away with arguments to commands and having all options passed through some kind of options object. The caveat is that I am split on whether that's appropriate for very simple commands that only take one parameter, like `read_odb [filename]`.

Whatever the decision is, I _definitely_ want to see a common command / interface that lets a user easily query all parameters that can be set for a tool. For example:
```
openroad> list_parameters Tool
Parameters for command 'Tool':
Parameter  Type  Value  Default Description
-------------------------------------------
A          int   1      1       Short description of A
B          bool  1      0       Short description of B
-------------------------------------------
Use 'help Tool' for more information on this command's parameters

openroad> help Tool
Parameter  Definition
------------------------
A          This is a long-form description of A. Here are the valid values, maybe some tips, etc.
           The description could be multiple lines.

B          This is a long-form description of B. Here are the valid values, maybe some tips, etc.

Use 'list_parameters Tool' to list the current values for this command's parameters
```

Hidden state / parameters is one of the things I hate the most about commercial tools. At the same time, a user definitely shouldn't _need_ to set parameters they don't know about, like bin grid size for GPL.

These comments are mostly concerning the user-side interface. As for the developer / C++ API, I don't think I have strong opinions. I think the proposed interface sounds ok.

### maliberty
I'm lukewarm on a builder.  Your two arguments for it were:

"It allows you to do more validation in your builder".  You can just as easily do this validation in the task.  If you want to do it in the  builder then you will have to restrict when it can be used (ie not before the db is populated) which seems awkward.  The builder itself will have to be constructed by the tool to give it enough state for validation.

"I like the idea of ToolOptions being an Immutable object. It means that a tool cannot modify the options which I think reduces the possibility of tools doing weird things with user provided options."  I see two problems.  The tool can always clone the options object and do "weird things".  In gpl for example we set options before calling grt (see https://github.com/The-OpenROAD-Project/OpenROAD/blob/b632f9f5177bc27fe7323beb1e5a97a8c904ccee/src/gpl/src/routeBase.cpp#L374).  I wouldn't want to force the user to know to do so.

### maliberty
re "I don't like the idea of modifying the default options object, seems very error prone."

I have a somewhat similar feeling but I'm also afraid of producing very complex API calls (eg gpl).  I think some people would prefer to setup the tools upfront.  Also interactively it will save a lot of typing.  However I am fine to remove it if there is a consensus that it isn't useful.

### maliberty
Putting the options in the db will open it up to tons of schema updates which is undesirable.  Or we would have to make the storage extremely generic which will push the validation on load problem to each tool which isn't much better.  Its also error prone for the user.

I lean toward saying that on reload you don't get any incremental operations.  We are living with that today, sta is not incremental across restart.

### donn
Sorry it's taken me a minute to respond to this- perhaps I can offer a bit of a different perspective being more on the user side, but:

* Lukewarm on the builder, too. I don't see the utility outside of a niche case where I may elect to build and serialize the options in OpenLane then use it in OpenROAD, but I'm fairly sure that won't be possible regardless.
* I like the idea of immutability vs. modifying a global variable. I get that means more typing, but I think it's worth it just to have less surprises. i.e. I wholeheartedly endorse this model:
```c++
ToolOptions options;
options.setOptionB(false);
tool->task(options);
```

From where I stand, the above model would let me write a single common file to convert OpenLane variables to an OpenROAD ToolOptions object generator, which can then be passed onto other tools. 

### maliberty
@rovinski tcl is a completely different API with lots of manual coding.  Converting it look like python, if possible, would introduce the same friction of it looking nothing like usual EDA tools' tcl interface.  I don't think it is worth the effort to maintain two sets of APIs.  Klayout supporting both python & ruby is much simpler since they are both OO languages.  We could do that too more easily (though I have no desire to).

### maliberty
Based on the discussions I'm wondering if it is preferrable to eliminate the global state and use only explicit options with a default arg:
```
class Tool
{
public:
  void task(const ToolOptions& options = ToolOptions());
  void complex_task(const ToolOptions& options = ToolOptions(),
                    const AnotherToolOptions& other_options = AnotherToolOptions());
};
```

### donn
Should probably add- syntactic sugar in the form of

```c++
auto options = ToolOptions {
    {"a", "value1"},
    {"b", "value2"}
};
```

i.e., one that basically takes a dict,  with the appropriate bridging to python:

```python
options = ToolOptions(
   a="value1",
   b="value2",
)
```

would be pretty cool

### maliberty
For a next step I want to make a concrete example.  Looking at gpl it fits this model well is it is a single task (placement) with many options.  

When I look at ifp it is more problematic.  It is a tool with multiple semi-related tasks: initFloorplan, insertTieCells, and makeTracks.  I don't feel it makes sense to have a single options object to cover such diverse tasks.  Perhaps this would be better formulated as TaskOptions rather than ToolOptions.  A TaskOptions could replace the need for overloaded methods.

This does run the risk of a proliferation of classes - worst case is one for every method.  I am hopeful that the number of tasks is fairly limited per tool today.

### maliberty
I created https://github.com/The-OpenROAD-Project/OpenROAD/pull/2809 as a example of what the revised API for gpl could look like.  The user tcl layer is unchanged but python and c++ see a new options object.  Replace has way too many options so it produces a very large object interface.

Having made the change I'm a bit on the fence about keeping it like this versus making either (1) a code generator from a description file or (2) a more weakly typed interface using string (or enum) keys with a variant value and a single get/set method.  I'm glad to hear opinions.

### maliberty
Any thoughts on either the existing approach or my other suggestion?

### maliberty
I came across https://abseil.io/tips/173 which gives some nice ideas for using designated initializers

