# How does OpenROAD computes the number of possible locations for IO's ?

Tool: Pin Placer

Subcategory: Pin placement

## Conversation

### lustefan97
Hello,

I have a question to know how does OpenROAD computes the possible IO pin locations, when placed on the top-most metal layer. I use the ASAP7 PDK, I already routed a "hello world" design using the ibex core which has 264 IO pins. Now I want to test a bit the capabilities of OpenROAD and start doing increasingly bigger designs. 

Right now I have a design that has 4100 IO pins to place on the top layer. The die size is 20um x 20um more or less which, since I want to place the IO's on the Pad Layer whose track pitch is 0.08um, would give me more or less 62 tracks on which I can place my pins (mind you I place the pins with a minimum width of 0.32um). The M9 metal layer also has a track pitch of 0.08, so I could think that I would also have 62 tracks  on which I could have a pin routed (on top). This would give me 62 x 62 = 3844 potential pin locations with this die size, but the tool give me the following error : 

`[ERROR PPL-0024] Number of IO pins (4100) exceeds maximum number of available positions (788).`

Which is far less than what I expect, so my questions are as follows : 

1. How does OpenROAD compute those available positions ?
2. Could those locations be linked to an oversight/mistake in my synthesis script ?
3. If I am mistaken in the way to compute the "potential location", how does one compute it properly based of the design size (number of cells/die area) ?

### maliberty
@eder-matheus please help

### rovinski
I don't know how the pin capacity is calculated exactly, but I know that the pin placer only works on edges of the die, not across an area. The total pins on the top layer would be around the perimeter, i.e. 62 * 4 = 248.
But, usually PPL does not want to place pins on edges that do not correspond to the preferred direction of that layer. PAD layers may or may not have a preferred direction. The other pins in the 788 reported may be coming from other layers along the edge of the die.

But anyways, you are probably looking at the wrong tool. You want to be looking at the [PAD tool](https://github.com/The-OpenROAD-Project/OpenROAD/blob/master/src/pad/README.md) which is meant for bump placement on flip-chip designs, which is much closer to what you are trying to do.

### maliberty
We support pins over the top of the core area through define_pin_shape_pattern.  The number of pins locations will be determined by the region and the x/y step given.  If you need to actually place bumps at specific locations that is different than pin placement.  What is your goal?

