# PPL vs PAD for IO

Tool: Pin Placer

Subcategory: Tool usage clarification

## Conversation

### lustefan97
Hello,

I have a question regarding the differences between the PPL and PAD tools, especially the PAD bump placement for flip chip designs. I don't really get the differences between the PPL and PAD tools when it comes to IO placed on the top metal layer, and their "relationship" with the GPL tool.

I am right now doing some tests using different designs using the PPL tool. It is used with GPL first by placing the IO without considering GPL, then doing Global PLacement followed by a Pin PLacement after it, finishing by a final GPL. I read that it was due to some circular dependency between the two tools, so this was the way things were done. 
Now I am using PPL to do some 3D Face-to-Face implementation, and am using the `define_pin_shape_pattern` command to place the IO on the top metal layer.

From what I understood PPL doesn't have/need a LEF object for the bump as it will create a metal shape in place of the pin, based off of the constraint given to the tool by the user before being routed in the subsequent steps.


I am now trying to understand what the PAD tool really is about, how it differs from what PPL is and what his use case may be, but I am a bit confused when it comes to 3D interconnect.

I understand that PAD is used for chip level connection, which raise a question for me (that is asked below), that requires a LEF object for top layer bumps.
When it comes to flip chip design, the PAD tool seems to be the default candidate but something is bothering me,  it is simply that there is no pin position optimization in it as opposed to PPL (which would probably not give a minimal "3D" wire length), that the bump assignement is done manually, and that in the example script given in _OpenROAD/src/pad/test_ link the bumps to an IO ring which I don't think is the goal in my application.

About the pin position optimization, I was told by @rovinski in #4061 that GPL will still do some HPWL optimization (and that the team would probably be interested in implementing 3D interconnect as part of the PPL tool), but at first sight it doesn't seem to be the most optimal way to proceed for "3D" routing since the assignement will be done manually. This leads me to the second question about assignment : Since I will probably need to have thousands of IOs on the top layer, manual assignment seems tedious if not even suboptimal due to the lack of automatic bump repositioning. 
I get that using a tool for flip-chip design would be make more sense but I must say that, when it comes to top layer bumps, I don't see really the interest in going for PAD rather than PPL



My questions thus are : 

0) What are the exact mechanisms that OpenROAD use to minimize wire length w.r.t. IO pins ?
1) If PAD is used for chip level connections then what is the use case for PPL ?
2) What are the inherent differences between PAD and PPL ?
3) If PAD is the default for flip-chip design, why implementing such a thing as part of PPL ?
4) Does will OpenROAD route differently when using PAD or PPL ? Especially when talking about memory usage ?
5) Will the use of a LEF object in the PAD tool create a difference with regard to the pin created by PPL ? Could I use a LEF object for PPL instead to benefit from the placement optimization?
6) Could we imaging eventually a flow mixing PAD and PPL, where the PPL tool is used for 3D interconnections ?




### maliberty
What is driving the bumps?   Usually you need an IO driver and that means you need to use pad.

### QuantamHD
I think the biggest difference between pad and ppl is that pad tries to deal with io cells. Typically the foundry will require you to place specialized io cells that deal with esd and what not.

ppl does a similar pin placement, but doesn't deal with io cells. If you don't need io cells between your dies then ppl probably is the solution you should use or enhance 

