# Where is PA pattern generation in FlexPA::main in TritonRoute? How to dump out AP info for TA?

Tool: Detailed Routing

Subcategory: Usage question

## Conversation

### Raynchowkw
Hi, I want to find the step of "pin access pattern generation" in the TritonRoute/src/pa code and dump out the pattern information after pin access analysis. I don't see pin access pattern generation function in FlexPA::main(). Could anyone tell me where is this step? 
Is there template or sample of extracting pin access points information for TA? Thanks.

### maliberty
The calls to init() and prep() do the work of computing the access points.  If you just want to dump the result you would do so after those steps finish.  You can just look at frInstTerm::getAccessPoints() for the result.

### maliberty
Btw, what is your high level goal?

### maliberty
Anything on stdout will be copied to the log file in 5_2_TritonRoute.log.

Matt

On Tue, May 18, 2021 at 2:02 PM Raynchowkw ***@***.***> wrote:

> Hi, I have built the flow locally and made modification to the
> FlexPA_prep.cpp to add the "cout" code provided by @Stephanommg
> <https://github.com/Stephanommg> in previous reply
> <https://github.com/The-OpenROAD-Project/OpenROAD/discussions/625#discussioncomment-636424>
> and rebuilt only the openroad tool.
> I run 'make' for a sample design, and from the output scripts in terminal,
> I cannot find any information which is assumed to be produced by 'cout'. I
> look through the part from '[INFO DRT-0194] start detail routing ...' to
> '[INFO DRT-0198] complete detail routing', also use "Ctrl+Shift+F" to find
> "layerNum ", but fail to find any aps information.
> Am I supposed to run TritonRoute individually to output the message?
>
> —
> You are receiving this because you commented.
> Reply to this email directly, view it on GitHub
> <https://github.com/The-OpenROAD-Project/OpenROAD/discussions/625#discussioncomment-755200>,
> or unsubscribe
> <https://github.com/notifications/unsubscribe-auth/AAFZ5KTE4I5VLZTMWONFAT3TOLIYFANCNFSM43GD6SBA>
> .
>


### Raynchowkw
How to interpret the aps info printed by 'cout << bp << "layerNum " << ap->getLayerNum() << "\n";'?
It looks like: ( the first paragraph)
```
( ( ( ( ( 84550 23940 )layerNum 2
( 84550 9025072770 23940 )75810layerNum (  ( ( 86450883502 68590 70490 23940
 )239402394023800  )( 23940 )layerNum  23940 )layerNum 272770  )layerNum 
( 86450238002layerNum   )23940layerNum 23800 )2layerNum 
 )2
(  )
( layerNum 70490 23800layerNum 222
( 90250
 )2
( 86450 24080 )68590
layerNum  layerNum ( layerNum ( ( 238002275810 23800
```
It's not something like (X,Y,Z).
Which part of code should I read to understand this data structure?
How can I know the net_id, pin_id, pin_x, pin_y, pin_layer according to this?
Thanks.



### Raynchowkw
Thanks.

On Fri, May 28, 2021 at 5:36 PM Stephanommg ***@***.***>
wrote:

> By container I meant something that contains things. For instance: a
> vector.
>
> Yes this operator.
>
> Learning C++ will surely help you. After that you will be better able to
> understand the code.
>
> I really cant code for you right now, and I think my previous comment
> already answered you last question (at least in part). You will have to use
> the first code to iterate the access points in combination with the last
> code to iterate over the nets.
>
> for each net
> for each instTerm
> get access points like the 1st code
> for each term
> get access points like the 1st code (with differences that it is up to up
> to check)
>
> —
> You are receiving this because you authored the thread.
> Reply to this email directly, view it on GitHub
> <https://github.com/The-OpenROAD-Project/OpenROAD/discussions/625#discussioncomment-799913>,
> or unsubscribe
> <https://github.com/notifications/unsubscribe-auth/ANTC4GJTDN2RNSJW4YS7Z43TQALHXANCNFSM43GD6SBA>
> .
>


-- 
Best,
Raynchow


### maliberty
@Raynchowkw the project has limited resources and I think you need to put in more effort to solve your issues before requesting help.   Many of the requests don't require in depth knowledge of OpenRoad and are basic software development skills you need to develop.

### maliberty
You can think of a term as a port of a verilog module; an instance as an instance of a verilog module; and an instTerm as the connection point on the instance reflecting the port of the module instantiated.

### Raynchowkw
Hi, After working hard on learning C++, I still have some questions. 
One that blocks my understanding is `pin.get()` etc.
What's the `.get()` here and where's its definition? I cannot find one in their class def.

### maliberty
No problem

On Thu, Jun 10, 2021 at 11:48 AM Raynchowkw ***@***.***>
wrote:

> You need to iterate over the frNets and then iterate over their
> frInstTerms and frTerms (similar to the for I placed here before). Do this
> after pin access and before DR. You can do this inf FlexDR::main() before
> the searchRepair functions. To get all nets, use
> design_->getTopBlock()->getNets().
>
> Hi, I want to dump out aps before TA. I check TritonRoute::main. dr is
> later than ta. So I want to dump out at the end of FlexPA::main. Would that
> incur unexpected problems?
>
> —
> You are receiving this because you commented.
> Reply to this email directly, view it on GitHub
> <https://github.com/The-OpenROAD-Project/OpenROAD/discussions/625#discussioncomment-855088>,
> or unsubscribe
> <https://github.com/notifications/unsubscribe-auth/AAFZ5KQZ53CPKQFIDDJZWCLTSECHPANCNFSM43GD6SBA>
> .
>


### Raynchowkw
After one week of understanding code, I find the logic of assigning one ap to one pin by this [line](https://github.com/The-OpenROAD-Project/OpenROAD/blob/c27d7cea8981bc917deaaa4d8cc83a6f9285c0e7/src/TritonRoute/src/pa/FlexPA_prep.cpp#L1579) in genInstPattern_commit. 
The code @Stephanommg wrote to get aps is `for (auto& ap : pin->getPinAccess(inst->getPinAccessIdx())->getAccessPoints())`. I had a hard time understanding what frPinAccess is doing. I just find its uses in the [FlexPA::initPinAccess](https://github.com/The-OpenROAD-Project/OpenROAD/blob/c27d7cea8981bc917deaaa4d8cc83a6f9285c0e7/src/TritonRoute/src/pa/FlexPA_init.cpp#L232) in and [FlexPA::prepPoint](https://github.com/The-OpenROAD-Project/OpenROAD/blob/c27d7cea8981bc917deaaa4d8cc83a6f9285c0e7/src/TritonRoute/src/pa/FlexPA_prep.cpp#L1248) in FlexPA::prepPattern and [revertAccessPoints](https://github.com/The-OpenROAD-Project/OpenROAD/blob/c27d7cea8981bc917deaaa4d8cc83a6f9285c0e7/src/TritonRoute/src/pa/FlexPA_prep.cpp#L1455) and [prepPattern_inst](https://github.com/The-OpenROAD-Project/OpenROAD/blob/c27d7cea8981bc917deaaa4d8cc83a6f9285c0e7/src/TritonRoute/src/pa/FlexPA_prep.cpp#L1816). 
It looks like these are before genInstPattern_commit and just for coord manipulation purpose. So I think frPinAccess doesn't filter ap selected for each pin.
So in order to get ap for each pin in each net, can I do loop through net -> instTerms ->getAccessPoints() ?
I am not sure the meaning of "net" and what's relationship between pin and net. Can I understand as this: a net connects some instTerms, each instTerm has some pins, so instTerms' pins are linked to that one net exclusively? Or pins in one instTerm can be linked to 
different nets?
Thanks.

